Welcome to `AuthMatic`, a sophisticated Identity Authentication and
Management (IAM) microservice. It’s tailored for seamless integration
with systems requiring robust OAuth2 authentication.

# Overview

`AuthMatic` offers a modular and scalable solution to identity
authentication and management challenges. Built on Node.js, and
leveraging MongoDB as its primary datastore, it stands as a testament to
efficiency and security. Furthermore, with its Docker compatibility,
deployment is swift and hassle-free, ensuring a consistent runtime
environment.

# Features

- OAuth2 Authentication

- Comprehensive API Suite for User Management

- Scalable MongoDB Database Backend

- Docker and docker-compose Support for Seamless Deployment and Scaling

# Quick Start

## Prerequisites

- Docker and docker-compose installed on your machine. If not, you can
  get them from [here](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/).

## Getting Started

1.  Clone the Repository:

        git clone <repository-url>
        cd <repository-dir>

2.  Start the Service with Docker:

        docker-compose up -d

**Note**: The `-d` flag will run it in the background.

You should now have `AuthMatic` running and ready to accept
authentication requests. By default, the microservice will be accessible
at `http://localhost:3000`.

## APIs & Usage

You’ll find a collection of API endpoints tailored for varied
authentication and identity management tasks. Here’s a brief overview:

- `/register`: For user registration.

- `/login`: For logging in.

- `/logout`: To securely logout users.

- `/refresh-token`: To refresh the existing tokens.

- `/verify`: To verify the user’s identity.

For a comprehensive list and detailed instructions, please refer to the
API documentation provided in the repository.

# Deployment & Scaling

With the innate Docker support, you can effortlessly scale up the
microservice to cater to your growing needs. Using `docker-compose`, you
can manage multi-container applications, ensuring each component
interacts seamlessly.

## Logs & Troubleshooting

To view container logs:

\+

    docker-compose logs -f --tail=100

In case you wish to restart just the database or the Node.js
application:

\+

    docker-compose restart mongo
    docker-compose restart nodeapp

# Contribute & Support

We’re continually striving to enhance `AuthMatic` and welcome
contributions. Please refer to the `CONTRIBUTING` guide in the
repository for details. For support or queries, reach out via the
repository’s issue tracker.

# License

`AuthMatic` is open-sourced under the MIT License. For details, refer to
the `LICENSE` file in the repository.

# Final Thoughts

Thank you for choosing `AuthMatic` for your IAM needs. We’re excited to
be part of your project and are eager to hear feedback. Wishing you
seamless authentication and efficient identity management!
